22.4.22 - 23:00
Fault
Filament broke off during print, just at the extruder entrance tube

Steps taken:
Print was restarted

22.4.22 - 23:55
Fault
Stopped extruding on first layer. Upon examination, the PTFE tube feeding the filament into the extruder was partially fed into the extruder entrance hole. The PTFE tube was previously damaged, so a slice of damaged section was fed into the filament, clogging up the upper feeding tube.
The filament did not freely unroll off the spool, it was stuck on the furthest right line towards the spool and might have been "dug deeper"

Steps taken:
Added a zip tie at the top frame of the machine firmly holding the PTFE tube in a place that leaves a few cm space between exit and extruder entrance hole

23.4.22 - 0:15
Fault
Filament spool hung causing extruder assembly to lift during first layer. Problem was observed.

Steps taken:
Filament was changed, to be checking on the problem at a later point

23.4.22 - 0:45
Fault
Inconsistent first layer height

Steps taken:
The zip ties to the PTFE tube were removed. The print quality normalized.
The print was paused for "filament change" and the end of the PTFE tube was trimmed and the filament re-inserted


23.4. 14:15
Hack

A wedge was installed that mounts securely ot the filament tube entrance.
Note: this doesn't work as I planned on spools with side cutouts. I installed it the other way around

24.4. 16:43
Maintenance

Y min was set to -20 to deal with the endstop offset.
Right Z was very slightly lowered and a calibration object printed to verify the level:
center: just a tiny bit too high, like front left corner, still acceptable
front left corner: just a tiny bit too high, still acceptable
front right corner: perfect
back left corner: bit too high
back right corner: quite a bunch too low

Because I am lacking the proper wrench size, leveling was postponed. The build plate limits in super slicer work okay now

26.4.22 15:30
Maintenance

Print bed level was calibrated. Y -20 was set to origin in superslicer. Performing bridge flow calibrations


27.4.22 16:43
Maintenance

Opened the power supply. 2 of 6 plastic screws were already missing.
Found a broken 60x60x15mm fan 12V inside. Cannot verify the fan voltage at the moment.
Fan has a 2.54mm JST female connector
Ordering a replacemnt sunon fan: MF60152V21000UA99 , a 24V fan that starts at 8V and shouldn't be too loud


28.4.22 20:30
Maintenance, follow-up

Reassembled the power supply as the fan replacement will take longer than expected to be delivered. Fan still turns on, but gets very noisy at times

1.5.22 20:33
Maintenance

Replaced the PSU fan, installed MF60152V21000UA99 ; Soldered the original connector to it.
Fan fit to the mounting cylinders was terrible, might be a challange to get it out without breaking the cylinders.
Actually found 5 of the 6 screws on the PSU to be present.
Fan appears to be running and temperature controlled by the PSU.


9.5.22 9:00
Print Failure / Filament
Filament used: Owl PLA bordeaux

Print was started yesterday with a dark red Owl-Filament spool that worked okay for previous big prints.

Found an incomplete print, upon inspection filament broke off the top of the extruder. Had to remove the extruder front panel, however the lower right screw did not want to come off, the nut insert was spinning loosely and went out without much effort.
Manage to pull the filament out of the nozzle and pulled a bit of different filament through to clean it.
The last ~1.5cm of filament had what looked like an extrusion problem, being thick up to 2.05mm, the next filament on the spool was a bit undersized with 1.66mm

Trying to fix the extruder thread insert, I noticed that it is a 4mm insert and the ones I have are 5mm for M3 (and 3.5mm for M2.5). Drilling the hole bigger by a millimeter might be marginal.
I put the old one back into and applied some heat with my soldering iron. However, this is likely just a temporary fix.

Extruder was reassembled and hotend was flushed with new filament. New print started, looks nominal.


9.5. 12:04
Print Failure / Filament
Filament used: Smartfil PLA Glitter Purple

Extrusion stopped mid-print. Pulled out the filament, looks like the extruder pressure on it was too high and the filament feeding gear stripped the filament. Will try to restart the print at a higher temperature


9.5. 12:51
Print Failure / Extruder

Follow up: Extrusion stopped mid first layer.
Upon examination it was concluded that The extruder gear bearing slipped out of the extruder plastic holder resulting in inconsistent grip.
The thread insert failed again.


9.5. 15:47
Repair / Extruder

Follow up: I drilled out the extruder hole to 5mm. discovered later that it is partially open to one side.
I installed a new thread insert, however it's also a bit marginal. It works a lot better than the old one.

It was decided against installing the metal version of the extruder now as driving gear as well as its bearing and bearing sizes are different from the plastic version.
It is recommended to build a new extruder assembly with the metal version.



10.5.22 19:16
Print failure
Filament: Smartfil PLA Glitter Green

Print failed about 4-5h in. Filament stripped at the extruder gear. Print was a hollow puzzle box sliced with variable layer height.
It printed fine for hours of minimal detail and eventualy failed.

The minimum layer height was increased from 5% (0.02mm) to 20% (0.08mm)


10.5.22 21:16
Print failure / Nozzle clog
Filament: Smartfil PLA Glitter Green

Print failed again after a few layers. Filament was changed, it didn't go easily through the nozzle either and curled up on open extrusion. Extruding about 20cm of filament did not solve the problem.

The nozzle was swapped to a new one while the machine was hot. Z height was re-calibrated.
The new nozzle extrusion was nominal in air.

Inspection under the microscope showed a bit of green and what looked like a large glitter fragment stuck in the nozzle channel


10.5.22 21:44
Print failure / Spool knot
Filament: Silk PLA Gold

Print failed in early layers. The spooling was found faulty.
Problem on the spool was found quickly.


11.5.22 10:05
Print failure / First layer extrusion
Filament: Silk PLA Gold

A new print was started after a nominal print that finished a couple of hours ago. The first layer did not extrude, the filament was very hard to push through.

Filament was pulled out, cut off, re-inserted resulting in nominal extrusion after flushing the hotend.
Print was restarted and extrusion was nominal.

Possible cause: A combination of low (variable) layer height and low extrusion amount at the end of previous print causing material to heat up higher up in the nozzle before it has a chance to cool down.
Solution ideas:
- an extrusion cut off blade should be installed
- a nozzle wipe area should be installed
- The hotend should be flushed at the end of a print, after returning to the end position.
- The hotend should be flushed at the beginning of a print and then be wiped clean, eliminiate the need of a skirt
- a filament movement sensor should be installed to detect extrusion failures


11.5.22 13:43
Print failure / Nozzle clog
Filament: Smartfil PLA Glitter Green

Extrusion stopped after a few layers. It was determined that the glitter filament clogged the nozzle.
It was tried to pull out the stuck particles with a different filament. There were some visible bits of green glitter pulled out and the clogging was partially resolved.
However after a couple of cycles of trying to clean it out by pulling it out, extrusion in open air is still curling up.

Recommended action: Replace and inspect nozzle, don't use that filament with current nozzle diameter again

11.5.22 15:50
Nozzle swap

Nozzle was swapped to a hardened stainless steel version.
The hole diameter looked a bit bigger but the size couldn't be verified without a reference insert.
Installing the nozzle was more complicated than expected as the nozzle is not following the "standard" spec of a 7mm hex, it only has 2 flat sides.

Quickly recalibrated Z height and doing a test print

13.5.22 - 18:00
Minor issue / Delamination
Filament: Eono Silk PLA / Rose

A small wall delaminated on the finished print. Temperature in config was raised to 210 °C to 205 °C. Another print provided nominal lamination.


13.5.22 0:10
Minor issue / Filament holder

It was notice on filament swap that the filament holder moved downwards.
The filament holder was pulled upwards to a position where the filament wedge will engage and the holder was screwed hand-tight with a 4mm hex wrench.



13.5.22 10:25
Z height issue

Print was very hard to remove, skirt was almost impossible to remove.
Z height was slightly adjusted, needs to be checked upon starting next print


14.5.22 3:14
Print failure / Despooling issue
Filament used: Overture PLA light blue

An inconsistent winding caused the filament to slip under a few layers into the spool and tangled the spool.

A solution is needed to ensure spooling fault tolerance and unspooling fault detection



20.5.22 17:59
Print failure
Filament: Amazon Basic silk rose pink

Extrusion failed mid-print around a thin-wall section, then resumed extruding nominally.
Possible de-spooling issue.


20.5.22 23:12
Print failure
Filament: Sunlu(?) Silk PLA Gold

Extrusion failed mid-print while printing a top surface.
The PTFE feeding tube got stuck into the extruder causing massive friction.
The PTFE tube looks mangled.

Proposed solution: Add a 1/4 inch pneumatic connector to the PTFE tube end. Work on this will be performed at a later time.


21.5.22 16:09
Maintenance

Attached a 1/4 inch pneumatic coupling to the PTFE tube end facing the extruder. This should fix the tube-chewing issue.
However the machine needs a despooling upgrade and a filament runout & running sensor


21.5.22 21:30
Minor failure / Bed height

A part of the skirt was almost impossible to remove. The front-right corner was too high.
A couple of adjustments and test prints were performed and the Z setting was slightly adjusted in the process.



21.5.22 22:00
Maintenance Note

The Igus bushings have worn out a bit on both X and Y axis; but most noticable on X as it allows the axis to skew a bit when lifted (i.e. spool hangs) and will need a replacement eventually.
When spool hangs occour, the print errors seem to worsen over time.

The X-carridge and extruder mount should be revised at some point as it is much larger than needed. A smaller carridge could add space on X for wipe or similar.
Note: The x-charridge upgrade project is probably better to develop on the TAZ3 that needs to be resurrected.

23.5.22 20:40
Print failure, Z height

A print failed early on, the nozzle had no space to extrude filament which caused the extruder to chew up the filament. The extruder was cleared and the Z height was lifted slightly.

A previous print was being tried remove from the build platform at about 42 °C and failed, possibly caused the lift.

Recommendations:
- A height sensor should be acquired and installed
- A complete rework of the Y axis shouold be performed that allows for a quick-swap of build platforms
- It should be avoided to try to take parts off the platform when the bed temperature reads above 30 °C


25.5.22 16:20
Filament issue
Filament: Sunlu neat winding Silk PLA Silver

Filament overextruded on solid layers. Extrusion rate was set to 0.95 and then 0.93 and it worked well on the first print.
The second part featuring thin walls delaminated at a point in the wall. Extrusion rate was set to 0.95, third part came out with the same problem.
Filament was changed; need to investigate if this is related to unspooling problems, filament diameter changes or general filament problems.


25.5.22 16:40
Print failure / USB

The USB cable / connector, probably on the computer side is flaky.
Further investigation is required


25.5.22 21:40
Print failure / USB

Same problem as last.
Reseated the USB-B end into the printer, moved the USB-A end from the left to the right port on the front of the computer.


25.5.22 21:45
Maintenance / Spool holder upgrade

TAZ4 logo plate was unscrewed in preparation to install the newly designed spool holders. Maintenance cannot be performed today, as there is hardware missing:
- slide-in T-slot nuts M5 (at least needed for the back side, the inserts previously holding the logo plate will be used for the first one in the front)
- DIN 912 M10 bolts for the spool centers
- possibly as improvement, M5 hand-screwable bolts for easier adjustments, though not needed for testing


25.5.22 22:38
Print failure / USB

It has been determined that Switching off the soldering iron kills the USB connection
usb 1-2-port4: disabled by hub (EMI?), re-enabling...

This happens to both the USB keyboard and the printer plugged into the front panel.

The "recover" feature in pronterface saved the print.


25.5.22 23:55
USB issues resolution

The usb cable was swapped to a mainboard usb port of the computer. Now, the serial disconnects via soldering iron switch are no longer reproducable.



27.5.22 16:36
Maintenance

A spool holder for 58mm wide spools was installed.
M5 2020 slide-in nuts and DIN912 M5x10 bolts + washers were used to mount the spool holder to the frame. The original hardware previously holding the logo were used to mount the front-left side.

A spool of JAYO black PLA was attempted to be loaded, but it wouldn't fit the center. A filament on a compatible spool was loaded.

NOTE: It was noted that the Extruder cable should have a better mounting on top of the machine

27.5.22 16:45
Print failure

The light-blue filament roll did fit the spool with too much friction. A copper colored silk PLA was loaded that spun freely.

It was noticed on print restart that the bed height was set too low, Z was set higher. Still unsure why this happened


27.5.22 20:20
Print failure
Filament: TEQStone SILK PLA Copper

Problematic filament, filament kept hanging, parts of the print have partial extrusion failures as result.


28.5.22 0:30
Bed Level issue

Left side was a lot higher than the right side. Right side bed adjustment screws were adjusted. Front right side might need a bit more adjusting downwards.
It was noticed that the carbon plate is warping notiable towards its middle.

Upon inspection of the print, the right side still looks too low but it was decided to continue with the print as is

28.5.22 11:45
Bed Level issue

Bed levelling was off again causing extrusion Z to be too deep. Bed level was recalibrated during several attempts of fixing it.
The corners mounts seem to actually bend the build plate a bit, or have done so over time, though the problem may also originate from the glass plane underneath. This needs to be determined by disassembling the Y heat plate.

28.5.22 17:30
Bed Level issue

Bed level was slightly off causing the filametn to strip. Had to recalibrate bed and re-load the (sunlu brand) filament that wouldn't cooperate


28.5.22 23:50
Maintenance / Print Bed replacement

After the print refuses to start nicely for the 3rd time today and three unsuccessful attempts to set the bed level correctly, it was decided to "screw it".
A replacement carbon plate was found earlier today while inspecting the little sister bot TAZ3.
The replacement carbon plate was installed.

A quick inspection of the Y axis underneath found two little cuts of filament between Y axis and heat bed. They were removed.
The glass plate on which a silicone heating pad is glued on revealed minor damage where a nozzle scraped off some material. A tiny bit of hard-to-remove plastic remained and should not cause any significant issues.

The ABS plastic corners may be a cause of Z height inconsistency issues, which the hack using two mirrored parts may have made it worse.
They can easily pivot when moved. The bolts anchoring the lower ones are not suitable to keep this from happening.
Potential expanding / shrinking moves of the glass bed and carbon plate may cause a slight pivoting movement.
More problematicly, parts that are stuck too well to the bed (as the current SunLu Silk PLA filament keeps producing this issue) will produce some amount of pivoting and there's no guarantee on how the print platform will return into


Recommendations:
1. Avoid filament that keep sticking to the bed when cooled down
2. Redesign the print bed corners, i.e. make the corners fixed to the Y axis


29.5.22 13:12
Print failure / Spool problems
Filament used: Sunlu Silk PLA blue

The filament hung on a "layer change" on the spool. It was moderately hard to pull it free.
The extruder gear had slipped causing a print failure.


30.5.22 10:30
Print failure / Spool problems
Filament used: Sunlu Silk PLA silver

Spool hung, print failed, like the last entry.
The nozzle is clogged after this incident.


30.5.22 12:45
Nozzle swap

Nozzle was swapped to a 0.4mm brass one. Z height and bed level were recalibrated.


30.5.22 14:16
Print failure, safety cutoff

Hotend thermistor wire snapped mid-print causing the safety cutoff to kick in.
The wire broke after repeated twists of the heatblock when the nozzles were swapped.

A new thermistor was prepared with a cable and plug, but it does not fit into the hole. The thermistor is about 2.5mm thick, the hole about 2.25mm

30.5.22 17:11
cont

A 2.5mm drill bit was not found, a 3mm one was used. The thermistor has a bit of space, but is kept in reasonably well by its wires via the screw on the heater block.
A test print was started to determine if the thermistor needs to be recalibration.


1.6.22 11:36
Print failure / Spool PRoblems
Filament used: JAYO PLA Black

It was attempted to use up the last 32 meters of filament left on the spool. The spool hung mid-print, causing the extrusion to fail.

Suggestions: An improved spool unrolling mechanism should be implemented


1.6.22 19:55
Nozzle swap: 0.8mm

A 0.8mm nozzle was installed. Bed levell and Z height was slightly adjusted


2.6.22 15:17
Print failure, Spool hang

The spool hung on its last ~30 meters.


2.6.22 15:18 - 21:15
Maintenance

A filament flow and run sensor has arrived today. A new firmware is required to run the sensor.

The electronics box was opened. The previous filament sensor cable was repurposed and re-labelled to serve 24V and is plugged into X30 (lower pin GND).

A hole was drilled near the E0 plug to push a 3-pin new wire through. The original Z+ housing was pulled as it doesn't work with the JST connectors at hand.

Extruder Cable modifications:
E-Fan cable was repurposed and relabelled to 24V (orange heatshrink tube for unswitched). Same for the matching connector at the Extruder.
The 3-pin included with the filament sensor was slightly extended with a 3-pin plug and labelled "Filament Sens."
Z height had to be adjusted after extruder was removed and remounted.

Firmware:
Firmware was updated to Marlin 2.0
TAZ4 now has UUID 98b15fe0-c4b2-013a-cb63-3c970eb37215

Upgrading the firmware had a bunch of problems:
- the firmware reported MAXTEMP E1 (E1 display, E0 to pronterface) raising above 120 °C. Problem seems to have disappeared after re-flashing the firmware
- the electronics fan emitted a high pitched noise on default settings / settings copied from the old firmware. PWM setting was changed to 180 (from 120) for active, and idle setting was set to 120 (from 0)


Notes: Filament sensor wiggles around too much mounted directly on the extruder entrance. Might be a good idea to rework the spool holder entrance to mount it there.

Filament sensor was verified to work on hanging filament. However when this happens, the print will be lacking the last extrusions of about 7mm of filament.


2.6.22 21:35
Maintenance, additional Note

It was noticed that the firmware takes a long time to be happy with the temperature when it reaches it, even when it has been kept at this temperature.
Upon inspection, the firmware was configured for TEMP_RESIDENCY_TIME 10 (seconds) while the original one has it set to 1 seconds.

The firwmare will be re-flashed after the test print finishes.

2.6.22 23:19
Maintenance, Filament Sensor test

The firmware was re-flashed. The filament sensor was tested for filament runout sensing.
The first test resulted in the filament running out past the extruder gear. The extruder had to be partially disassembled to retreive the remaining filament.

Another pneumatic coupling was added to the small ptfe tube of the sensor. This one sits nicely on the opening of the extruder arm. It was noted that the PTFE tube would have been chopped up with time by the extruder gear otherwise.

Another runout test further at the print resulted in a shorter response time and okay.

The firmware was re-flashed, FILAMENT_RUNOUT_DISTANCE_MM was set to 5 (from 7), first runout test was reproduced on the first layer and it worked as required.

NOTE: one weird thing is that the extruder gear tries to spin way too fast when the printer goes to resting position, but that is not part of the retraction. About a second or two later it graduately spins up to retract the filament and that works okay.


3.6.22 10:40
Print failure / extruder

Top layers of the last print only printed partially. Some mateiral was pushed out but not all the required material.
It was determined that the extruder front plate is flexing too much. Re-tightening of the screws resulted in the bottom right one rotating the thread insert again.

It was determined that the aluminium version of the extruder is to be installed.


NOTE: There's a Firmware bug that stops the print immediately after start when manual extrusion is used.
M412 R1 G-code was added ot reset the filament sensor on print start



3.6.22 14:35
Extruder Swap

The extruder was swapped with an Al version of the titan extruder.
A chunk of plastic had to be cut from the TAZ extruder mount to fit it. The motor heatsink part did not fit the existing mount and the one supplied deemed incompatible.

The extruder came with a motor gear that did not fit when installed, the top would not close. The original gear was used.

The hotends upper PTFE tube needed to be cut. Since no insert was supplied / at hand, the ptfe tube was just cut flush to the top of the hotend. This might be problematic on filament changes as there's nothing to hold it in place.


The E steps need to be recalibrated.

A test print showed that the extruder motor was unable to push filament through the nozzle. After trying out higher digipot settings, It was noticed that the hotend fan was not working.

The filament was removed, the machine was turned off. It was noticed that the voltage converter wires broke off.

The hotend needs to cool down before repair.


16:58
Extruder Swap, cont.

The cables leading to the power converter were soldered back on.
A flow calibration plate was started.

The extruder digipot had to be set to 180 (from 70) which is likely to cause extruder motor thermal issues. The extruder spring should be replaced by the original, weaker one.


17:20
Filament Sensor Problem

The firmware thought the filament sensor had triggered, but it didn't. No parts missing of the printed calibration part. One thing to note is that the print uses the slic3rs "complete individual objects" feature

The sensing was turned off for the remainder of the calibration print. This may require more firmware debugging.


18:00
Extruder Swap, cont.

The extruder spring was switched to the old one. Some powder of the big plastic gear was visible, slight wear was found on the big gear.
A bit of oil was sprayed on the motor gear. Other moving parts on the machine were serviced with a bit of oil too.

The digipot setting for extruder was reset to 70. Some firmware tweaks were performed and M75/M77 codes were added in to start/end/inbetween objects gcode.

E-steps were increased to 440, a new finer calibration program was loaded.

18:22
Filament Sensor Problem

The sensor triggered again erroneously after an ironing layer on calibration.

18:52
Calibration

E-steps were set to 448. A storage containr was chosen for a test print.
E-steps were set to 450.


4.6.22 0:50
Extrusion problem at print begin

It was noticed that the last 3 prints all had extrusion problems starting the print. They would not extrude on the skirt or only partially until the filament sensor would kick in and unload the filament.
Reloading it manually did not show anything unusual.

More investigation is necessary.

4.6.22 14:00
Filament Sensor Problem

The filament sensor triggered twice at one print for no obvious reason at low layer height sections.

Further investigation is necessary. The print finished nominally.


4.6.22 15:09
Maintenance

Firmware was re-uploaded with sensor debug on. This caused the printer to send the status of length remaining regardless on what it was doing, causing pauses in long moves.
This was deactivated. Pause behavior was changed to not retract as it did seem to retract the length of E gcode on top of what it was told to do originally (2mm)

Sensor length was set to 15mm.
Print bed was levelled, cleaned and coasted.

0.8mm profile start gcode was modified to purge some material before on front of the machine. This will need some further testing and fine tuning.

5.6.22 0:15
Note

The filament ran out in production conditions and the filament sensor detected and acted nominally. Filament was easy to pull out of the extruder aftwards with curent settings (15mm sensing distance, 60mm retract).


5.6.22 10:09
Extrusion problem at print begin

Extruding ~40mm of filament into the air at print begin does not solve the issue that appeared since the extruder was swapped.

It is possible that the shape of the filament drive gear has an impact as the teeth grip into the material less, combined with high temperatures (225 °C) used for the 0.8mm nozzle operation.

The filament sensor is detecting this case nominally while printing a skirt. The ejected filament can be pushed back into the hotend with ease.

It should be tried to add a lengthy retract at the end g-code and re-retract at start.


7.6.22 0:10
Minor print problem after filament change
Filament: Eryone Ultra Silk PLA Bronze

The filament loaded was slightly undersized (random spots measured at 1.72, 1.74, 1.73).
A slicing issue in combination with underextrusion caused an aligned seam in two of the three parts to not fuse together. This was especially problematic with the last part of the layer where the Z move was at that seam. The printing of that part was aborted via the cancel individual object feature.
This worked almost nominally. [There was a blob that later on was identifed to be a end gcode issue]
The two other parts were continued to print with a flow rate of 108%. However it was later noticed that the (only perimeter) layers were delaminating easily and the parts had to be binned.

Slicer settings were adjusted after this issue:
- filament diameter was set to 1.72mm
- seam position was set to random


7.6.22 11:44
Minor print problem, seam

The overnight print produced random visible seams. Filament was swapped to one used previously to rule out filament problems, the same happened.
Seam position setting was reverted to cost based.
Seam gap was reduced siginificantly from 15% to 3%. This setting may be increased slightly to calibrate a perfect seam.


7.6.22 11:53
Firmware issues / Heater watchdog

A print was restarted at the first layer to fix some gcode settings. While doing that, the hotend and heatbed were kept on at print temperature.
Upon print restart, the firmware beeped several times and displayed "E0 heating error" after slowly dialing up to temperature.
The hotend was set to 225 °C, the temperature readout indicated 223 °C and then 224 °C moments before the firmware restarted.

There was no observation of actual failure.

Further investigation is necessary.


9.6.22 13:32
Extruder problem on retraction after filament runout
Filament used: Sunlu Silk PLA Silver

The filament ran out. Retraction did not work nominally and left the filament in between the area below the extruder gear.
It was attempted to fish it out using flat pliers, but the last part of the filament would be stuck.

The extruder front plate was opened. The fault was cleared. A screw and bearing fell out of the block.
The extruder front plate would not close in position afterwards. Cause was that it was assumed that the extruder idler bearing was lost and replaced.
However the bearing was still stuck in there, so the extra bearing would make the extruder not close.

The extruder was fixed off the machine.
It was attempted to resume the print. On the first attempt, the XY would move very slowly to the part of the print that was interrupted.
However it did not reset the Z offset. Print was paused and all axis were homed. It was tried to resume the print, however it did not go to the desired Z height and the extruder head crashed into the print.

The print was aborted.

9.6.22 19:22
Hotend clog
Filament used: Sunlu Silk PLA Blue

The hotend was heated up to temperature after a print to change filament. An attempt was made to manually retract the filament out of the hotend, resulting in a clog that needed hotend disassembly.
First it was tried to screw out the nozzle and push against the clog from below. This did not work.

The extruder front was disassembled, the hotend removed. The PTFE tube was pulled. The clogged filament was inside the PTFE tube and had formed a plug between top of the heatbreak and bottom of the PTFE tube.

The hotend was reassembled, the extruder was reassembled (this time without issues) and the nozzle was screwed back on.

The Z height needed to be recalibrated.

Suggestion: Find a way to fixate and slightly tighten the PTFE tube in place on the hotend.



10-12.6.22
Inconsistent Prints
Filament used: TEQStone Silk PLA Copper (replacement spool)

The filament started printing okay, then at the inner layers, the spool itself caused a lot of hangs and other not determined filament feeding problems. The filament sensor would trigger a lot, however a lot of times there have been gaps in perimeters that are only explained by the extruder gear slipping (and the filament sensor not catching it because of its configured filament sensor length).
A change of filament resulted in nominal extrusion on following calibraiton prints.


12.6.22 23:42
Z gantry level, print bed level

It was observed that the Z axis had some issues with small, fast moves and there have been level issues in the X direction at the same time.
It was observed that the default Z acceleration of 500 was too high (at least for the set Z stepper power levels). It was reduced to 200 and saved in eeprom.

The Z gantry was recalibrated. This caused the bed to not being aligned anymore. The bed was realigned and tested via calibration prints.
The Z endstop position had to be lowered.

The spring bolt on the front right bed corner was swapped to M3x16 as the stock M3x12 one was too short and slipped out of the thread multiple times while calibrating


13.6.22 17:33
Z axis failure mid print

The printer made strange noises just before the filamend endstop kicked in. The filament was stripped at the extruder gear.
When filament was re-loaded, the Z axis had troubles moving back. The right side of the Z axis was set much higher than the left one.

Further investigations are necessary.

13.6.22 23:05
Maintenance

Z axis was levelled. Z drive and guide rods were oiled.
First it was attempted to move the Z axis all the way upwards. The (mostly unused) new top spool holder collides with the X carridge around Z MAX.  The carridge was moved out of the way to achieve hitting the machine top.
The right side of the Z axis seemed too low even when moved both axis to its upmost position by hand. While this moved freely all the way up and down, the bed could not be levelled on the right side as it exceeded the spring settings by a big margin.
It was then attempted to calibrate the axis by a digital angle meter. This resulted in a managable bed levelling.

While levelling the bed, it was noticed that the heater block was loose. The nozzle was removed, the heatbreak was removed.
It appears that there was a tiny gap between heatbreak and nozzle. The matching side of the heatblock was cleaned up. The thread inside the heatblock was attempted to clean.


14.6.22 14:10
Maintenance, cont.

The nozzle thread was cleaned, the nozzle mating surface with the heatbreak was cleaned.
The fan shroud was cleaned with IPA and a q-tip.
The hotend was re-assembled, tightened, then re-tightened at 160 °C reported temperature.
The fan shroud was mounted to the left side of the machine to avoid being too close to the heater.
The extruder feeding gear was cleaned.
It was verified that the filament runs through.
Z endstop height was slightly adjusted, bed level was adjusted and verified by calibration prints.
The Z axis was moved close to max (to 220mm) and back to verify it running smoothly.

A smaller print was started to verify everything's in working condition.


18.6.22 17:24
Extrusion failures, faulty E motor cable

The extrusion failed seemingly randomly with a buzzing sound as if the extruder motor had not enough power, over the course of the last few prints.
The source of the problem was just recovered to be a faulty extruder motor cable.
The hotend will be cooled down to room temperture before attempting to fix it.


18.6.22 19:54
Repair, Extruder cable

The motor cable was inspected. The black colored cable on the extruder cable side had snapped off at the crimp housing exit.
Since no replacement crimps nor connectors were readily available, a pair of 4-pin 2.54mm connectors with cables was soldered on.

The extruder unit was tested, nominal motor movement and filament extrusion. Operation was resumed.

17.7.22 16:13
Filament breakage, extruder clog
Filament used: Owl PLA Violette

The printer wasn't used for a couple of weeks. Upon a new print job, the filament broke inside the extruder, causing it to clog up.
Upon examination, the filament that was left in the PTFE feeding tape broke into a lot of bits. It was attempted to use filament that was on the spool, but it also got brittle. It is to note that the spool was almost empty.
The fault couldn't be resolved by pushing new filament into the extruder. The extruder front had to be opened and the hotend PTFE tube had to be pulled to clear the fault.

A new filament was loaded and the print resumed nominally. The faulty spool of filament was discarded.


9.8.23 22:01
Thermal Runaway error, then unexpected restart without user input

The printer beeped alarm, then rebooted. The host software ireported a Thermal Runaway Error on E0, then wanted to restart the print for some reason.
Problem was not found yet, extruder was heated to 237 °C (print temperature), then to 250 °C and problem did not reproduce.


3.1.24 14:28
Thermal Runaway error

Printer restarted after issuing thermal runaway error. Temperatures afterwards looked fine. Wiggling cables and connectors did not trigger the issue.


3.1.24 14:59
First layer print issues / Maintenance

The first layer kept failing and it was squished. Upon inspection, bed levelling was off. The Z gantry has been slightly adjusted, as well as the z endstop screw.

A bit of oil was added to smooth rods and linear screws.


4.1.24 12:27
Extruder Thermistor, no temperature reading

The extruder thermistor stopped reporting temperature and the machine reset upon changing filament. The extruder assembly was removed.

The thermistor leads were tested. The soldering to the plug was flaky but not the cause of the issue. The shrink-wrap around the thermistor and the thermistor still reported open circuit.
Shortly after, the thermistor broke in two.

4.1.24 14:48
Hotend Repair

The thermistor was replaced with a new one. While fixating the wires, one of the 24V in wires to the DC-DC regulator broke.
Both wires were removed, the solder pads cleaned up. Both wires were stripped and soldered onto again. The wires were fixed mechanically towards the DC-DC regulator module to avoid future wire fatigue because of movement.
The extruder assembly was re-attached. The Z height was adjusted above as the extruder seems to sit a tiny bit lower. This might need further fine tuning.


6.1.24 23:45
Filament feed issues

The printer is having some troubles feeding filament reliably. It works fine until it slips for a long while. This problem did start to happen after filament change.
4 filaments have been tried, all having with the same problem, with different temperature and speed settings.

The extruder drive mechanism has to be inspected.

7.1.24 14:38
Extruder Repair

The extruder drive was disassembled, cleaned and inspected. The mechanism holding the tensioner spring was at an abnormal position.
The bearing on the spur gear holding the pressure arm was binding. After cleaning, a thin layer of oil was applied and it seems to be running fine again.
The gears and filament bite gear were cleaned and a small amount of oil was applied.

Upon resassembly the pressure mechanism was tested and worked satisfactory. A bit of oil residue appeared on the test filament.

Furthermore, upon reassembly of the extruder unit, it was found that the extruder cooling fan and its mount is marginal and will need replacement in the near future.

The Z height was adjusted after reinstalling and testing the extruder. A test print was started.




